### A shift in direction...
Over the past two weeks or so (starting around the last week th November), I've taken a bit of a break from Hack The Box.  Instead, I've focused my attention on Python.  In the spring of 2023, I started learning Python via David Malan's CS-50 courses at Harvard (via the videos posted and available).  I found that this really resonated with me; for my final project I developed a small contact-logging program for amateur radio's Parks On The Air (POTA: http://pota.app) program.  Additionally, I started to see certain areas at work in which there was a need for decent tools and automation.  This was the push I needed to start developing some of those tools, using Python and the Flask framework for web-based applications and front ends.  I am sure I'll end up talking about these programs in more detail at a different point - to the extent that I can do so without getting into confidential information - but it was an incredible learning experience, and I'm sure I could chart the learning arc via the initial code I wrote compared to re-writing/refactoring and new code along the way.

About 6 months later, I signed up for Reuven Lerner's Python + Data Academy (https://lerner.co.il/ - the simplicity of the website really does not reflect the quality or quantity of his offerings).  I have maintained that subscription, even though my participation had fallen off due to a reduction in focus on my Python activities at work as time went on.  Not that the need had diminished, but this was always considered a "special project" and I needed to spend more time on the "core functions" of my position.  I have, however, re-energized my activity.  He changed websites for the classes themselves (http://lernerpython.com), so that while my old subscription was maintained (as long as I paid :-) ), he wasn't able to carry over the records of the classes I had taken.  No worries; I took this as an opportunity to re-take and review the material I had done over the intervening 2 years.  I am glad I did, because I was able to pick up a few things that I had either not caught or had forgotten in the interim, and there are new classes now which are very useful to me.

For example, I ran through all the Fundamentals courses, in accordance with my practice of doing everything at the lowest level before moving onward.  I also found a couple of courses I hadn't done yet, on Git, and Objects for Newbies (which I finished just this morning).  These were two subjects about which I had always had a lot of questions, but had not had the time to find answers.  These courses filled in those holes for me.  It is possible, if not likely, that I would have leaened both of these areas were I to have entered college for a CS degree in the last few years.  However, I graduated in 1994, at which point I was doing basic programming in C via the Unix command-line (in school).  Had I started working as a programmer in 1994, I am sure that I would have learned one or both of these things on the job, but that wasn't my path.  My skills and experience led me down the road of Technical Support/Consulting positions, with only as much programming as was necessary to support these activities.  Dr. Lerner's courses have given me the opportunity to learn on my own what I didn't learn at work, and I understand much more now.

###... And a new project.  Or two.
But first, a quick diversion.  I had, back in 1999, read the book "Cryptonomicon" (https://www.nealstephenson.com/cryptonomicon.html) by Neal Stephenson.  This was the first of his books that I had read, and was hooked by his writing.  The important part, for the purposes of this discussion, was where two of his characters were communicating via code, as their interactions were observed and noted.  They did so via a deck of cards; the code system itself was detailed in an appendix to the book.  I have always been interested in codes and cyphers, even if I've not gotten into it enough to be all that good at *breaking* codes.  That said, the idea of hiding communication within ordinary/everyday information has been fascinating to me (at some point I'm going to flesh out the steganographic framework to hide messages within JPEG files, so that observing governments or corporations are less likely to spy on communications when people are just passing around pictures of their kids).  I've read/watched enough science fiction to have come across two concepts:
1) Much of our DNA, and in fact most DNA, is made up of "junk" information that isn't actually used for the formation/reproduction of an individual or species.  
2) If much of that information isn't used, it could theoretically be altered in some way without notable harm to the individual.
This leads to an interesting conclusion: it could be possible to hide information within an individual's DNA (human or non-human) and carried around for years or decades.  In fact, I seem to remember one TV show or movie (Orphan Black?   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orphan_Black  Or another?) discussing a copyright notice embedded in an engineered genome.  In fact, season 2, episode 6 of the CBS show Watson (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_(TV_series)#Season_2_(2025)) more explicitly discusses using the genetic code to embed a simple message marker.

I had been thinking of something like this for a while, but was trying to decide how a full message could be encoded.  A few weeks ago, while I was supposed to be sleeping, an idea came to me for a quaternary code.  After discussing this with both my sons to make sure that this was plausible and not something completely delusional, I decided to knock together a simple encoding/decoding problem: https://github.com/donlevey/genecode . I was able to verify that it works, but it really requires more time than I have at the moment to set up a full structure for tests and a more robust structure.  I have just made the repository public, so if you inspect the code please be gentle.  :-)  I'm not going to go into further detail here; there's more information in the repository itself.

And this leads to the next project.  At some point soon I'm going to start the initial work on a Dungeons and Dragons character generator.  I'm sure there are many out there; this is intended to be not only a personal convenience but a way to exercise a number of things, including class definition and object-oriented programming, database access, package/distribution creation, a full testing structure in PyTest, and potentially a Flask-based front end.  At this point, it's just a few ideas, and I don't really have the time to do it (see a coming-soon post on the costs of job hunting), but I'd like to get something else out there.  But for now, it's back to work.