## ... But the cost?
So here I am, in the midst of a job search, somethig I've not done in almost a quarter of a century.  Certainly many things have changed, and I am fervently trying to catch up.  I've had a few pbservations; differences an difficulties that rather stick out to me.  I thought thismight be a time to mention them, and perhaps discuss them a bit, as there seem to be some expectations that are difficult to meet.

The first, and most obvious, is the financial cost. This is, for someone in my position, a time during which we must be careful with financial expenditures.  Perhaps some of the "spending opportunities" I have seen are things I should have already done or been doing while I was still employed, and I readily admit that possibility.  That said, I'm certainly paying (literally) for that now.  Being in the technical field, it is a constant race to remain current and not fall behind.  However, many if not most of the developments out there in the computer world are things I had little need for when I was still employed.  The difficulty with specializing, particularly on an "internal" technology, is that all the news, progress, breakthroughs, and so on are things I would learn from other people in my company.  None of it made the news, especially since these were things no-one else needed to know.  Now, they are things I have little need to know, and I have a lot of catch-up ahead of me.

With that in mind, I am training on two fronts: building upon my Python knowledge and skills, while also learning Information Security, which as a formal study is new to me.  I have always been wary of the risks involved in internet connectivity, and have not been willing to trust in those who blithely tell me that they've got me covered; now, as I pursue formal study, I see the actual vulnerabilities that (to a degree, at least) justify the paranoia.  With regard t othe programming, the field in front of me has suddenly blown wide open as I am faced not just with learning how to accomplish the tasks I had set for myself at my former employer, but also realizing just how much *else* there is to learn.  At the intersection of the two is a somewhat thorny hedge I must tame as I learn how to program securely.

For each of these, there are on-line resources - and it is considered a good idea to choose reputable sources from which to get my training.  Unfortunately, none of these come free.  I've chosen one for each "fork," and the annual memberships are about $5 -- 600.  I am fortunate; some resources are several times that cost per year (and, in fact, for one of the ones I have chosen the cost is for a rather modest membership).  To be fair, these are not bad deals; there is a large base of material from which I can select, and more stuff coming all the time.  It does, though, represent a significant sum of money.  Were I employed directly in the security field, as an example, that membership would be all but required to remain current in the field even while employed.  It would, however, likely be paid by employer, or be factored into my business expenses. There may well be professional societies also, whose memberships also cost, and  the membership in good standing would be necessary also.  Factor into this the potential costs of certifications (and those costs can be substantial, especially when dealing with industry-recognized certifiers), and the dollar amounts rise much higher.

Those seem to be the major costs, and represent significant outlays of cash, even if in the grander scheme of things they are not unreasonable for what they bring.  Someone who is prudent and conservative may well have kept a small some of money in reserver, held against the day when these might be necessary - if they hadn't already purchased these subscriptions as part of their ongoing employment.  There is also a slew of other, smaller expenses that crop up.  Social networking resources such as LinkedIn are nominally free, but it is difficult to make the best use of them without the "premium" fee.  These could be $30-80 (or more) a month, and it adds up.  Add to that such expenses as a paid LLM account (ChatGPT, and so on), website hosting, and perhaps consulting fees (if necessary) for a coach to help with resume or interview skills.  This doesn't include the physical infrastructure that may be necessary to provide the access necessary to modern resources such as a new computer, cellular modem, maybe even a printer that is reliable.  But at least we do not need to have 100 printed copied of our resume, plus envelopes and postage, so that's a win.    But there are still some additional material expenses, such as appropriate clothing for interviews; having at least 3 outfits is a good idea, since duplication doesn't present a good appearance and often lucky candidates need to face at least 3 rounds of in-person interviews.  In my situation, I am shooting for senior/principal positions, if not management, and showing up in a suit for at least the first interview really seems to be  the best bet unless circumstances explicitly say otherwise.  That can be another several thousand dollars in total, depending upon just how behind one allowed themself to fall.  

## Perhaps the more important cost
And that brings to the fore what may be the more important - and less-achievable - price: time.  We all fall behind t osome degree or another.  There is just so much that happens, and only a limited amount of time in which to address it.  Each of these things also takes *time*, and while financial matters *might* be flexible, there is a finite amount of time in the day.  Each day brings the unemployed person that much closer to insolvency, and so every unemployed person I know is trying to remedy the situation as soon as possible; I am no exception.  

The training occupies much of my time.  I am trying to spend at least 4 hours a day in improving my skills; I could do this for two to three months before I exhausted the materials available to me via the resources I have chosen.  That means that my progress is steady, but not speedy; I can increase the pace, but that leaves less time available for other activities.  Like money, time is an investment, and I need to decide the proper balance point that will give me what I need without "starving" the other things which also require my time or money.  

I am told that professionals should spend an hour a day on LinkedIn, reading, posting, responding, and networking.  This helps to keep one current with the state of the market, and keep's one's name out there and in front of people.  This is considered basic maintenance, and according to many experts should be done by people who are otherwise-employed, in order to "build their brand."  A job searcher needs to increase that time, as we add the actual job search activities to this time: looking through the posted jobs, applying to the appropriate postings, reaching out to people in their network who may have connections to posting companies, and so on.  Let's also add research on various companies might be hiring (or ones that are desirable to work for).  All told, LinkedIn time can be substantial, and that's not the only thing.  There are many job search/posting websites; spending only an hour a day on two of them is another chunk of time.  My personal experience, by the way, is that each one can take at least two hours a day, if they are active enough.  Some of the sites send alerts with a list of potential matching jobs; add another hour for LinkedIn to the alert email work.  

There are many other things which can add t othe daily time burden.  Are you a technical person who is using their GitHub repositories to showcase their work?  Add some more time for coding and/or content creation, so that your check-in history reflects regular activity.  Blog posts (like this one), posts to social media sites (again, like LinkedIn) that show insight, knowledge, and activity, and so on.  There is enough work to completely fill a 12-hour day, every day.  That's two full-time jobs; you'd better hope that you have a partner or a good friend living with you at hime, because they'll be taking the lion's share of the work necessary to maintain the home - including feeding you.  Self-care can be an infrequent thing, as it can be very difficult to take time away from the primary job-hunting activities.  But it's a good thing that it's difficult to sleep most nights, as you'll have less time for it most days.  

Yes, this sounds grim, and to a very real extent it is.  This is on top of the actual process of dealing with potential employers; it seems  the whole thing is specifically designed to be dehumanizing.  It used to be that employers would reach out to candidates to keep them apprised of each step, or promptly cut someone loose when they were no longer under consideration.  Now you're lucky to get a postcard once.  And how often now do companies use "AI" interviews for the first round, rather than committing the time of an actual human to get to know the candidate?

I hope that, as I continue in this process, no-one questions my potential dedication and commitment to my next job.  The dedication and commitment exercised in just *getting* the job is more than the average week's worth, and it goes on for months.  I hope, at least, it shows the lengths to which I am willing to go, the amount of effort I'm able to expend.  
