title: "First Steps"
date: 2025-10-06

##The Prologue
I had been hoping to break into new (to me) tech areas for a while.  It was perhaps 16 months ago that I started programming in Python, after having gone through Harvard University's CS-50 class; in the class we went through several programming (and other) environments, and I found that I had an affinity for Python.  I continued, with their Intro to Python course, and did special project work creating a communications logging program for Ham radio operators.    This gave me some exposure and experience with the object-oriented nature of the language, as well as a few ideas.   For quite   a number of years, I had been involved in a project as part of my job which could use some programmatic assistance: I needed a way of automating the procedures, but no development resources were available to make this a reality. 

Because of this need, I set to work building a Flask-based structure in Python wherein I could set up a web interface to the automated features.  Without going into details (and divulging confidential information), I was able to give people results in seconds, rather than in several days as was the case before.    Encouraged by the overwhelming reaction of those in my group, I proceeded to develop a number of other tools and utilities, and I continued to learn.  I set up a structure within my code that was totally unnecessary for something of that scale, because I wanted to learn more about using Python in a larger environment: I configured a central git repository for my code (in-house), so that others could participate and review my code.  I pulled out my common packages into separate library files, and then as a Python package, so I could be more familiar with that procedure.  I continued t revise my code as I learned, taking advantage of new things such as Pandas dataframes.  I generated class definitions and members for my data structures and associated methods, as well as a growing Pytest testing framework to increase the consistency and coverage of the tests for my code. 


##Shifting Gears
During this time, Philip (my elder son) had started studying IT security as part of his college major, and he encouraged me to join in.  I've always been interested in the topic, but I had my hands full already with my job, additional work for the special projects, my various hobbies (like Ham Radio, see above), and other things going on in (and out of) the house.  There wasn't really time, or energy, for me to take on another large and involved topic.  However, the thought of something new was enticing, not to mention the possibility of working with my son.  This summer, things began to shift at work, resulting in some concern (justified, it turns out) for my position there.  I decided it would be prudent to hedge my bets, "upskilling" (as the kids say) with the aim of also making myself more attractive to other potential employers.


##Taking action
After discussing the situation together, I picked up a pair of laptops (Lenovo T480) at a very good price; they were company liquidation material so there were some assorted parts missing (most specifically, hard drives).  I took the opportunity to upgrade, increasing the RAM, putting in NVMe storage instead of an HDD, making sure the batteries were maxed out.  I had been pretty much out of the PC-building business for a while, so it was a nice refresher on things like NVMe size specifications (I needed 80 and 42mm; I had at first gotten 22mm - oops).  It was not difficult, though, and I shortly had two well-performing laptops.  Given the security focus, I installed Parrot Linux, which came pre-installed with a variety of tools I would be using in my pursuits.  This also allowed me to segregate my work, so that my personal desktop "fun" machine would not interfere in any way with my studies.  Since they are laptops, I can also bring them just about anywhere I might want or need to work; I am not tied to my desk at home.  Instead, I can be tied to a table at a local coffee shop and an IV drip of medium-roast or a cappuccino.

At Philip's urging, I also signed up at Hack The Box (and Hack The Box Academy) with the goal of working through their programs.  While the HTB site provides me access to a range of pre-configured servers that hghlight various security programs, I expect that I will complete at least the junior-level security course before I start working on compromising the provided servers.  I want to make sure I have a reasonable understanding of the normal procedures for "red-teaming" a target before I start doing that.  I also plan to write up formal reports of each experience; I'll post those here.  That should be reasonable practice and useful in case I do find myself in such a role where I need to present my documented findings to a client.  Stay tuned for more...
