###Getting Started
On Monday (13-Oct-2025) I completed two more modules, "Getting started" and "Intro to Information Security".  The former is the first module where I felt I had to actively take notes: there were specific pieces of information, recommendations as to tools, and so on that I wanted to record so I could refer to them later.  Yes, it is possible to review the modules, but in general I would rather have a smaller and cohesive document instead of various pieces of information scattered in many places.  You'd never know that, though, to look at my desk...

The module focused on what I would characterize as "meta-process".  That is, it discussed the ideas behind the process and not what to do or paths to follow in a particular situation.  I was able to learn about various tools to make my work easier, ways to display or store information in an organized fashion, and even (to an extent) how to set up my machine to smooth the process.  What I may do is create an image with everything I find I use on a regular basis, and then burn that image to a machine or VM so that I can start cleanly with each engagement.  This assumes, of course, that I find myself pursuing security audits and penetration testing on a semi-regular basis.

It does occur to me now, however, that this might be a useful strategy to follow in other areas that tend to get bogged down in old and unused cruft.    Being able to start each project with a fresh and clean "desktop" could have significant benefit.  I wonder why this never occurred to me before.

###Intro to Information Security
This module ran through a number of different types of information.  There was a discussion of quite a number of Information Security professionals, from CISO through to front-line operator.  Detailing the individual responsibilities, it is clear that an entire team is necessary in anything but the smallest operations, even if some of these responsibilities are part-time for some people.  The individuals tag in and out as their skills and specialties are brought to bear; no one person or role handles everything.

Also covered are some of the various risks and threats an organization might face, and the module stressed that attention nshould be paid to all (or at least all which reasonably apply).  If someone does not have a web server, then perhaps that segment isn't necessary, but as many on-line services rely upon HTTP and HTTPS (amongst other protocols), any server connected to the internet is vulnerable - especially if it is set up to serve data in some way.  Only a completely air-gapped computer is not vulnerable to network attacks; I tend to say that the most secure computer is the one completely encased in concrete and resting on the ocean floor.  Even an air-gapped machine is vulnerable to certain attacks, whether they be internal network access (thus not completely air-gapped), or direct access by an unauthorized (and potentially nefarious) insider.

Certain information is also required by regulation to meet certain standards, whether those be regulations of access or ones of the data themselves.  A high standard of encryption may be necessary to meet legal requirements, for example, or some data may need to be obfuscated.  Even housing data in the same file or database table may run afoul of regulations meant to protect that data.  The possibility of fines and penalties may in and of itself may be the major impact to the business, of the disincentive may also include loss of customer trust and reputation, remediation costs, or vulnerability to lawsuits. In some cases, a breach may also result in direct financial loss if someone uses information to sabotage the company itself via financial manipulation or pressure, or loss of competitive standing when a rival company uses the information to jump ahead.  

The broad areas of potential threats were also a subject of this module.  In a modern business, especially one which does business on-line, there are many links in the chain  - web server, website code and forms, back-end database, credit-card processing, logistics system, and so on.  These don't include the internal systems necessary to run the business, including HR and payroll, accounts payable/receivable, sales and marketing, product or business development, and even things like the phone system or physical plant.  

###My approach
I thought it might be useful to describe my approach to these modules, and my current studies in general.  I sorta dove in head-first when I separated from Ab Initio, embarking immediately upon both this track (security and testing) as well as continuing my Python programming study, practice, and improvement.  I expect to move ty Python for a while after a few more modules.  Those who are familiar with Hack the Box ay have noticed that the modules I have been working through are all at the Fundamental level, Tier 0.  This is on purpose.  My intent is to build a broad familiarity with a number of basic topics, both in terms of learning but also to help familiarize me with the various roles and practices of people in the field. 

I do expect to choose a "path" at HtB; these are not mutually exclusive, so I can do more than one.  I also expect to pursue their certifications - but getting letters after my name or "certified  <blah\> professional" after my name isn't really the primary goal.  Yes, I want to be attractive to potential employers and/or clients, but having the knowledge to back it up is even more important.  Like many things (to me), the title should only confirm what is already true, and not somehow grant new status.