###Introduction to Penetration Testing
On Thursday 16-Oct, I started the Intro to Penetration testing module.  This discussed a number of things: the various reasons for *ethical* testing, how it might be implemented, the number of roles in which this comes into play.  It also outlined different parts of penetration testing - as there are many different elements to a modern internet-connected system, so too are there different methods and skills necessary.  Ideally, testing would be done by a team, with each member having their specialty; one person really can't do it all and do it well enough for a corporation to be able to rely upon those results.  At least, that is the impression that I am getting, the more time I spend learning about this.  I cannot imagine having the depth of knowledge necessary for each and every necessary (let alone possible) area of attack and defense.  Vulnerabilities and their exploits seem to be multiplying rapidly, and merely keeping up with one or two reas of interest can almost be a full-time occupation.  

Testing and remediation are done not only to find and repair weaknesses, but to maintain regulatory compliance.  Many industries (for example, Health Care, or Financial Services) are under obligation to maintain a certain set of standards by law where they operate.  Ideally, these laws accurately reflect the risks and best practices necessary to guard against those risks.  However, it would not be unreasonable were you to believe that at some point these two would diverge (if not already).  This is because lawmakers are not experts in cyber-security, they are experts in writing laws.  Hopefully they are well-advised and the laws are written with that advice in mind.  However, one can comply with the law and still remain at risk; hopefully, a company or system owner will be willing to pursue *both* goals and not just their obligation to the law.  At the least, knowingly leave security holes in place, or fail to test for them, would leave them open to legal liability for failing to protect their customers against known threats - regulations or not.  In some (but not all) instances, compliance with regulations in place does not completely fulfill their obligations.

###Getting Started, redux
It was at this point that I looked at the Getting Started module again.  I know I wrote about this earlier; apparently I only scratched the surface and did not come near finishing it - there were still many pages and exercises left.  During the initial exercises, I was having trouble - I spent time over-thinking the prompts and as a result didn't get to the intended solutions.  I spent some time discussing this with Philip and decided that I needed to change my way of thinking about these; I needed to start thinking like a hacker.  By the time I finished the exercises and the module, Philip told me that he could tell I was thinking differently.  I was able to solve the problems in fairly short order.  This may have been my most important module so far, because it went through the procedures I'd need to practice, and I gained a lot more familiarity with the process.  It wasn't just knowledge that I would need to store, but the ability to put that knowledge to use, and for me that was much more important and more beneficial. 