###Networking Essentials
Yesterday (Saturday, 10-Oct) I completed the Networking Essentials module on HTB.  Much of this was review, but I initially learned this material almost 30 years ago.  I was surprised at the amount I had forgotten, and yet simultaneously also surprised at host much I had still retained even after not using it for over a decade (and, in many cases, two).  The major difficulty I had with this was the formulation and wording of the questions: for me, there was ambiguity in some questions that was not immediately resolvable. What is the difference between the two numbers of the learning progress mentioned above?  This is something upon which I do occasionally get tripped up, and so it is now an automatic process for me to search for alternate meanings.  In the end, as should be clear, I did complete the module - and that means I was able to successfully answer the questions.

###Learning Process
This module was particularly interesting, in that it was more about psychology than technology.  The author had a specific viewpoint and purpose in their formulation of the module and I found that occasionally it rubbed me the wrong way as it conflicted with what I have previously learned (especially my degree work, which was in psychology).  It was about halfway through my progress in the module that I felt more comfortable accepting the author's point of view as an initial assumption and "for the sake of argument" moving forward with that in mind.  This is why the last question was a bit of shock to me - I immediately had discarded the literal interpretation in favor of trying ot discuss the *meaning* of the passage to which the question referred.  However, the answer expected was indeed the literal meaning; once I recovered my discarded interpretation and answered accordingly, I was able to move through the end and pass the module.

###Hardware difficulties
On Friday, I decided to bring my laptop to the library to see how working there felt.  I had received another delivery just before I left, and so I brought with me a 1 TB NVMe module with which I had hoped to supplement my laptop.  I spent the first 15 minutes or so installing it, only to find that the laptop wouldn't turn on.  I removed it, and yet the laptop would still not turn on.   I had some suspicions as to the physical integrity of the switch, but holding it on, moving it around, double-checking internal connections - none of these helped the situation.  In frustration, I put the things away and took out my phone to read for a little while.

After an hour, I packed up and went home.  Philip (Son the Elder) had just recently arrived home, and so we discussed the situation.  We both got to work, he on my primary laptop and me on the secondary machine, into which I was installing the second NVMe module I had ordered.  Lo and behold, the second laptop displayed the same problem, and removal of the SSD did not allow the laptop to turn on.

It turned out that there were a couple of problems.  First, by looking at the spec sheet for this model of ThinkPad I found that the secondary SSD slot would accept NVMe 2242 Gen 3, but it did *not* say anything about Gen 4.  The main hard drive slot accepted a 2280 Gen 4 but "down-shifted" to a lower-performance mode: it simply would not take advantage of the more recent features.  The secondary slot, though, apparently will NOT downgrade, it will not work at all with a Gen 4.  This triggered some sort of internal switch, which I was able to clear by holding down the factory reset button (available directly on the motherboard, and (also) accessible through a pin-hole on the bottom.  The reset switch allowed the machines to power on again IF the Gen 4 module was removed from the secondary slot.  

I have, so far, had little success in finding Gen 3 modules for sale; the one place I saw that *did* have them was charging more than double the price of the Gen 4 modules.  I don't *need* an additional terabyte of storage, but I had hoped to keep a stable of VMs stored locally.  Perhaps we'll make a (small) NAS server and use the unused modules there.  If I need to bring one or more with me somewhere, I can always copy it locally before I leave the house.