###More Progress
I've lost track of the HTB modules I've completed; I'm up to about two dozen now.  It's an interesting mix - some of them are more "theoretical" knowledge, that can and will be useful later, while others are directly practical.  There are certainly challenges; as I think I've mentioned before, there are some challenges with wording and potential language barriers.  I can get around these; it just takes a little time for me t odecipher what they're really asking.    Sometimes frustrating, but so far I've gotten through all the ones I've tried, and I feel pretty good about that.

I spoke with my elder son on Friday, and he casually mentioned that, in addition to the classes he's taking this semester, he is also a TA for two additional classes.  Normally, my experience has been that they tend to use graduate students for TA positions, rather than undergraduates (he's a senior).  Then again, apparently these are graduate classes.  He's going to see if he can petition to get credit for those classes.  It may not help him, but it can't hurt.

I'm a bit distressed by the state of the students in these classes, though.  He told e (in non-identifying terms) about how some of the students have a fundamental lack of understanding of te basics of the classes, things which should have been in the prerequisites.  I am astounded.  We're talking "put gas in the tires because the wheels make the car go" levels of cluelessness. I guess it helps me a little to know that this is my competition for employment nowadays, but I really do wonder how these people think they're going to be able to support themselves beyond a level of "would you like fries with that?"  He told me what he is doing to try to help them, and with that some of my professors (and his!) would have taken such care with their students, but some of them don't seem to be catching on that paying attention to him would be a good thing.  

I did manage to get two recommendations for recruiters, and I reached out to both of them.  One has not yet responded to multiple attempts; I am wondering if the email interface on her website functions correctly.  She did leave her mobile number on the site also, and I am considering one more try via text at that number.  The other recruiter did indeed respond to my first try.  I am wondering where he is located; I thought he would be local, but the times he has available for calls are between 6 and 11:30 pm.  I've got a call scheduled for Thursday, so we'll see how it goes.

In the meantime, I am going to continue with a couple of additional Hack The Box modules, and them I am going to switch back to Reuven Lerner's Python classes.  It has been a while since I have been able to exercise those muscles, and I want to keep those skills sharp (and hone them further).  I have a few ideas for personal projects requiring some programming; it's not that I expect to take the world by storm with them, but putting them out there can help demonstrate where I am in a way that just talking about it will not.