###Web Requests
Last night (20-Oct) I completed the Web Requests module, which I found very interesting.  Basically, it focused on crafting http requests via cURL in order to affect change on the server.  Certain well-formed requests can take advantage of vulnerabilities and weaknesses on the server and can allow for the retrieval or change in information stored on the server.  In particular it focused on CRUD API calls to change or remove information from the server's database.  This is something I should explore further, as I am curious as to just how far I could take this.  It has the potential for great harm, but since that great harm isn't happening on a regular basis *everywhere,* I must assume that there are also ways to guard against it.


###Introduction to Active Directory
This is a module I had been dreading.  I am not a fan of Active Directory or any of the management fundamentals of a Windows server.  To me, they seem too Byzantine, too unnecessarily complex, and too fraught with potential misconfiguration.  There seem to be multiple ways of accomplishing the same thing, or *almost* the same thing, and in way too many places.  Some of the differences are subtle, and a default installation is apparently inherently insecure.  It seems to me that it is easier to screw things up than to harden the system, and a cracker who knows what they are doing has quite a few ways to exploit such a system.

To a degree, the module demonstrated that this is indeed the case.  However, the convoluted nature of Active Directory can be as much an impediment to the attacker as to the defender/administrator.  As a professional (on either side of the firewall), having an understanding of what is going on inside a Windows server or PC.  - even if I am not a certified Windows Administrator.  Therefore, I expect to train further on this even if I do spend most of my time on Linux machines.


###Progress, on HTB and elsewhere
I am, at this point, running out of the "Fundamental" modules on HTB, and that's OK.  I will likely select my first path and move toward that, probably with a subscription.  I do want to earn their certificates, as well as take some of the industry-standard testing so that my work is more widely recognized.  I expect that I will move to more in-depth modules shortly, if not immediately.  When I start trying to crack the public boxes, I will be trying to write up the experience in report-like format, as if I were presenting it to the IT department of a company.  It may not be the "accepted" format for these things, but at least that will give me some practice in documenting my procedures and findings.

I also want to continue the training classes on Reuven Lerner's Python Academy, something I had started a while back but in which I had more recently fallen behind.  I need to sort out my subscription (the credit card I used had fallen victim to fraud *twice*, the second time before the new number had even left yje issuer's facility.  I'm quite curious just how much of a stir that caused there, but I'll never know.  Anyway, at the least I need to get him a new credit card number.

Much of his training has to do with data science and analysis, which is something I know little about beyond what is likely the obvious.  Data analysis and presentation is one area in which Python shines, and I'd like to be able to make myself more useful to a potential employer by providing them with information that can benefit the group.  I'll probably come up with a project or two to work on while I'm doing this, if only to keep my hand in.  I'll probably get back to that soon, and spend a couple of weeks doing that before coming back to HTB for more intrusion training.  And, as I understand it, it is quite likely that Python skills will be beneficial there also.  It's always nice when different things can work together.  In the best of all possible new positions, I'll be able to exercise a larger portion of my knowledge, skills, and interests.  I am hoping that this work will help me find that position.